and the word of the Lord came to me son
of man prophesy against the Shepherd's
of Israel prophesy and say to them thus
says the Lord God to the Shepherd's woe
to the shepherds of Israel who feed
themselves should not the Shepherd's
feed the flocks you eat the fat and
clothe yourselves with wool you
slaughter the fatling 'z but you do not
feed the flock the weak you have not
strengthened nor have you healed those
who were sick nor bound up the broken
nor brought back what was driven away
nor sought what was lost but with force
and cruelty you have ruled them so they
were scattered because there was no
Shepherd and they became food for all
the beasts of the field when they were
scattered my sheep wandered through all
the mountain and on every high hill yes
my flock was scattered over the whole
face of the earth and no one was seeking
or searching for them there for you
Shepherds hear the word of the Lord as I
live says the Lord God surely because my
flock became a prey and my flock became
food for every beast of the field
because there was no Shepherd nor did my
Shepherds
search for my flock but the Shepherd's
fed themselves and did not feed my flock
therefore o Shepherds hear the word of
the Lord
thus says the Lord God behold I am
against the shepherds and I will require
my flock at their hand I will cause them
to cease feeding the Sheep
and the Shepherd's shall feed themselves
no more for I will deliver my flock from
their mouths that they may no longer be
food for them for thus says the Lord God
indeed I myself will search for my sheep
and seek them out as a shepherd seeks
out his flock on the day he is among his
scattered sheep so will I seek out my
sheep and deliver them from all the
places where they were scattered on a
cloudy and dark day and I will bring
them out from the peoples and gather
them from the countries and will bring
them to their own land I will feed them
on the mountains of Israel in the
valleys and in all the inhabited places
of the country I will feed them in good
pasture and their fold shall be on the
high mountains of Israel there they
shall lie down in a good fold and feed
in rich pasture on the mountains of
Israel I will feed my flock and I will
make them lie down says the Lord God I
will seek what was lost and bring back
what was driven away bind up the broken
and strengthened what was sick but I
will destroy the fat and the straw and
feed them in judgment and as for you O
my flock thus says the Lord God behold I
shall judge between sheep and sheep
between Rams and goats
is it too little for you to have eaten
up the good pasture that you must tread
down with your feet the residue of your
pasture and to have drunk of the clear
waters that you must foul the residue
with your feet and as for my flock they
eat for to have trampled with your feet
and they drink what you have fouled with
your feet therefore thus says the Lord
God to them behold I myself will judge
between the fat and the lean sheep
because you have pushed with side and
shoulder butted all the weak ones with
your horns and scattered them abroad
therefore I will save my flock and they
shall no longer be a prey and I will
judge between sheep and sheep I will
establish one Shepherd over them and he
shall feed them my servant David he
shall feed them and be their Shepherd
and I the Lord will be their God and my
servant David a prince among them I the
LORD have spoken
I will make a covenant of peace with
them and cause wild beasts to cease from
the land and they will dwell safely in
the wilderness and sleep in the woods I
will make them and the places all around
my Hill a blessing and I will cause
showers to come down in their season
there shall be showers of blessing then
the trees of the field shall yield their
fruit and the earth shall yield her
increase they shall be safe in their
land and they shall know that I am the
Lord when I have broken the bands of
their yoke and delivered them from the
hand of those who enslaved them and they
shall no longer be a prey for the
nations nor shall beasts of the land
devour them but they shall dwell safely
and no one shall make them afraid I will
raise up for them a garden of renown and
they shall no longer be consumed with
hunger in the land nor bear the shame of
the Gentiles anymore
thus they shall know that I the Lord
their God
and with them and they the house of
Israel are my people
you are my flock the flock of my pasture
you are men and I am
[Music]